README.md, before:

# nukr

A prototype of social network built using functional programming techniques and features.

## Running

To run the server, just execute:

```
$ lein run [port]
```

The argument `port` is optional. If you don't provide one, the system will be bound to port 4000 by default.

Note that currently the system uses an in-memory storage adapter, which means there isn't any kind of persistence. Every data eventually inserted into the system will be vanished by the time its execution is stopped.

## Schemas

Below are described in structural and semantical ways the problem main entities.

**Profile**

| Param | Spec |
| ----- | ---- |
| :profile :name | `string`<br/>The person's name. |
| :profile :email | `string`<br>The profile email address of the format `address@domain.com[.br]` |
| :profile :gender | `string`<br/>The profile gender. It may be: `"male"`, `"female"` or `"other"`. |
| :profile :password-hash | `string`<br/>The profile's password encrypted. Note passwords, when not encrypted, must be: <ul><li>between 6 and 32 characters long<li>contain at least one uppercase character</li></li><li>include at include at least one of the following: `!@#$%&*;?<>\`</li> |
| :profile :private | `boolean`<br/>Whether a profile has opt-out to be hidden from suggestions or not.<br/>Here, `true` means a profile must be hidden. |
| :profile :connections | `array(string)`<br/>A list of UUIDs, representing the profiles to which a given profile is connected. |


**Suggestion**

| Param | Spec |
| ----- | ---- |
| :suggestion :profile | `Profile`<br/>The profile identified as suggestion. |
| :suggestion :relevance | `int`<br>How many connections this profile recomendation has in common with requested profile. |

## Using

The application features some API endpoints that can be used to interact with it. The following interactions are available.

> Note that all requests must contains the header: 
> `"content-type": "application/json"`

### Creating a new profile

**Request**
```
POST /profiles
```

The request must also include the body as according:
```json
{
  "profile" : {
    "name" : "string",
    "email" : "string",
    "password" : "string",
    "gender" : "male|female|other",
  }
}
```

**Response**

| Status | Description |
| ------ | ----- |
| 201 | Profile created successfully. This response also includes a body containing the just-created profile, according to the aforementioned schema. |
| 400 | No profile was created, because one of the request body params are not following the schema. |
| 405 | The request method used is not POST. |

------------------------------------
### Opting a profile in/out of the suggestions engine

**Request**
```
POST /profiles/:uuid/opt/:private
```

| Param | Value |
| ----- | ----- |
| `uuid` | `string`. The UUID of the profile to opt. |
| `private` | `boolean`<br/>Note that `true` here stands for a profile being out of the suggestions engine. |

**Response**

| Status | Description |
| ------ | ----- |
| 200 | The profile's privacy was set to match `private` param.<br/>This status also features a body with the updated profile serialized. |
| 404 | The `uuid` param provided doesn't correspond to a profile in the database. |

------------------------------------
### Tag two profiles as connected

**Request**
```
POST /profiles/connect/:uuid-a/:uuid-b
```

| Param | Value |
| ----- | ----- |
| `uuid-a` | `string`<br/>The UUID of the first profile |
| `uuid-b` | `string`<br/>The UUID of the second profile |

**Response**

| Status | Description |
| ------ | ----- |
| 200 | Both profiles are now connected. No further body is returned. |
| 404 | Either `uuid-a` or `uuid-b` params provided doesn't correspond to a profile in the database. |

------------------------------------
### Get a list of profiles suggestions

**Request**
```
GET /profiles/:uuid/suggestions[?count]
```

| Param | Value |
| ----- | ----- |
| `uuid` | `string`<br/>The UUID of the profile to which the suggestions must be made. |
| `count` | `int`<br/>Optional. The number of recommendations that must be returned. |

**Response**

| Status | Description |
| ------ | ----- |
| 200 | An array of suggestions objects - according its related schema - is returned in the body of the response.<br/>If `count` param is provided, this array will have at most `count` items.  |
| 404 | The `uuid` param provided doesn't correspond to a profile in the database. |

## Testing

To execute the test suit provided with the application, just run:
```
$ lein test
```

Commit message:

[readme] add a known issues section

README.md, after:

# nukr

A prototype of social network built using functional programming techniques and features.

## Running

To run the server, just execute:

```
$ lein run [port]
```

The argument `port` is optional. If you don't provide one, the system will be bound to port 4000 by default.

Note that currently the system uses an in-memory storage adapter, which means there isn't any kind of persistence. Every data eventually inserted into the system will be vanished by the time its execution is stopped.

## Schemas

Below are described in structural and semantical ways the problem main entities.

**Profile**

| Param | Spec |
| ----- | ---- |
| :profile :name | `string`<br/>The person's name. |
| :profile :email | `string`<br>The profile email address of the format `address@domain.com[.br]` |
| :profile :gender | `string`<br/>The profile gender. It may be: `"male"`, `"female"` or `"other"`. |
| :profile :password-hash | `string`<br/>The profile's password encrypted. Note passwords, when not encrypted, must be: <ul><li>between 6 and 32 characters long<li>contain at least one uppercase character</li></li><li>include at include at least one of the following: `!@#$%&*;?<>\`</li> |
| :profile :private | `boolean`<br/>Whether a profile has opt-out to be hidden from suggestions or not.<br/>Here, `true` means a profile must be hidden. |
| :profile :connections | `array(string)`<br/>A list of UUIDs, representing the profiles to which a given profile is connected. |


**Suggestion**

| Param | Spec |
| ----- | ---- |
| :suggestion :profile | `Profile`<br/>The profile identified as suggestion. |
| :suggestion :relevance | `int`<br>How many connections this profile recomendation has in common with requested profile. |

## Using

The application features some API endpoints that can be used to interact with it. The following interactions are available.

> Note that all requests must contains the header: 
> `"content-type": "application/json"`

### Creating a new profile

**Request**
```
POST /profiles
```

The request must also include the body as according:
```json
{
  "profile" : {
    "name" : "string",
    "email" : "string",
    "password" : "string",
    "gender" : "male|female|other",
  }
}
```

**Response**

| Status | Description |
| ------ | ----- |
| 201 | Profile created successfully. This response also includes a body containing the just-created profile, according to the aforementioned schema. |
| 400 | No profile was created, because one of the request body params are not following the schema. |
| 405 | The request method used is not POST. |

------------------------------------
### Opting a profile in/out of the suggestions engine

**Request**
```
POST /profiles/:uuid/opt/:private
```

| Param | Value |
| ----- | ----- |
| `uuid` | `string`. The UUID of the profile to opt. |
| `private` | `boolean`<br/>Note that `true` here stands for a profile being out of the suggestions engine. |

**Response**

| Status | Description |
| ------ | ----- |
| 200 | The profile's privacy was set to match `private` param.<br/>This status also features a body with the updated profile serialized. |
| 404 | The `uuid` param provided doesn't correspond to a profile in the database. |

------------------------------------
### Tag two profiles as connected

**Request**
```
POST /profiles/connect/:uuid-a/:uuid-b
```

| Param | Value |
| ----- | ----- |
| `uuid-a` | `string`<br/>The UUID of the first profile |
| `uuid-b` | `string`<br/>The UUID of the second profile |

**Response**

| Status | Description |
| ------ | ----- |
| 200 | Both profiles are now connected. No further body is returned. |
| 404 | Either `uuid-a` or `uuid-b` params provided doesn't correspond to a profile in the database. |

------------------------------------
### Get a list of profiles suggestions

**Request**
```
GET /profiles/:uuid/suggestions[?count]
```

| Param | Value |
| ----- | ----- |
| `uuid` | `string`<br/>The UUID of the profile to which the suggestions must be made. |
| `count` | `int`<br/>Optional. The number of recommendations that must be returned. |

**Response**

| Status | Description |
| ------ | ----- |
| 200 | An array of suggestions objects - according its related schema - is returned in the body of the response.<br/>If `count` param is provided, this array will have at most `count` items.  |
| 404 | The `uuid` param provided doesn't correspond to a profile in the database. |

## Testing

To execute the test suite provided with the application, just run:
```
$ lein test
```

However, due to some issues described in the next session, the preferred way of executing the application is running tests on a per-namespace base, like this:

```
$ lein test [namespace]
```

## Known Issues

During the development of the final solution, some issues arose. Aleph is a great server when compared to its counterparts, however it sometimes suffers from a weird issue when closing the server, as seen in issue [#365](https://github.com/ztellman/aleph/issues/365) of their official repository.

Even though this issue doesn't occur always, it makes tricky and difficult to test the system components, since closing them may raise some exceptions. One solution to not mess with the entire test suite is to run each testing namespace into a different port, which makes closing the server unnecessary. Needless is to say this approach may suffer from a huge memory leak issue.

A more simple and clean solution is to run each test namespace individually, what permits the server to be closed without problems. Thus, even though it's not the most convenient way to test an application, it certainly allows testing the whole application without worries.
